# PyxDyn
### Overview
PyxDyn is a project written in Python, made for visualizing data generated by an as of yet unnamed project that I will be writing in C++ at a later date.

It takes a .csv file as input, with the first line describing some data about the following line, and so on, such that it can be parsed by the program. For this reason, input files must follow a specific format, as described below.

At the time of writing, all necessary "cells" of the .csv file are integers.
### Input
The first line must contain 3 pieces of information, in this order:
1. The width of the room to create, in pixels
2. The height of the room to create, in pixels
3. The number of objects to create
For example,
```
1024,768,2
```

The second line begins the definition of the first object. Depending on the contents of the first line, this could be the only object, or it could be one of many. In the example above, there are two objects to be created.

The first line describing any object consists of the following 4 elements:
1. The width of the object, in pixels
2. The height of the object, in pixels
3. The x coordinate of the object's initial position, referenced from top-left
4. The y coordinate of the object's initial position, referenced from top-left
From this information, specifically the first two cells, the total number of pixels comprising the object can be calculated (width * height).
Given this line:
```
3,4,25,50
```
A **3**x**4** object is to be created, so there are **3 \* 4 = 12** pixels to define.

The next *n* lines, in this case **12**, define the color of each pixel, using the standard RGB color model. Thus, each line contains 3 cells, with the first representing the **R** value, the second that of **G**, and the third that of **B**. The pixels are defined beginning at the top left corner and travelling right until the end of that "row" is met, then continuing all the way at the left side of the following "row", 1 pixel down.
These lines:

```
0,255,0
255,0,0
255,255,255
255,255,255
255,0,0
255,255,255
255,0,0
255,0,0
0,0,255
255,255,255
255,0,0
255,255,255
```
Could generate a valid image, if they followed the object definition line above.  Really, any 12 lines could, as long as they each contained 3 integer values, ranging from 0 to 255, separated by commas.  In fact...
These lines would also be acceptable:
```
127
0
255
255
0
255
0
0
63
255
0
255
```
This is because the code also supports grayscale color definitions to save space. If a line defining the color of a pixel contains only 1 value and not 3, then the line is treated as if it contained that 1 value repeated 3 times.
So,
```
127
```
is, in the eyes of the program, equivalent to
```
127,127,127
```
After the 12th line of pixel data, the next line should be another object definition line, as long as there are more objects to define.  If not, the rest of the contents don't matter **(FOR NOW)** because the remaining functionality has yet to be written.

### Credits
Anyone from who I have borrowed code will be credited here.

### To Do
 - Maybe be more direct and use .bmp instead of .png once I learn more about that formatting
 - Change "Object" class to "Particle" class
 - Create "Bond" class
 - "Object" class should then be created, representing network of particles interconnected by bonds